# GROUP 23 - Ant Colony Optimization
Redi Alessandro - s310471    Volponi Federico - s309709

The solution of the 3D bin packing problem is divided into three sub-problems:
1. 2D bin packing problem
2. Stacks creation
3. Vehicles decision rule

## 2D bin packing problem
This is the core of our solution and it is implemented using the ACO heuristic.
The main idea is to use as states the different stackability codes plus one additional states that is the empty vehicle state in order to construct the matrix containing the probability to move from one state to the other.
Moreover, the other two main components are the attractiveness matrix and the trail update matrix.
### Attractiveness
The matrix is build considering the space available in the choosen vehicle to enhance the stacks which dimensions better fit the available area.
### Trail update
The trail update considers the quality of the solutions generated by the ants. In our case the metric used to evaluate the goodness of a solution is ratio between the area occupied by the stacks and the total area of the vehicle. Moreover, a dynamic pheromone coefficient has been adopted; starting from a low value it increases as the area ratio becomes higher.

## Stacks creation
The stacks are created for the choosen vehicle before the call at the ACO heuristic.
When a weight or height constrain is met in the construction of a stack, another item is searched(only if possible) for a more efficient creation of the stack.

## Vehicle decision rule
The decision rule consists in three main phases.
1. obtain the maximum weight and height value between all the remaining items and, eliminate all the vehicles that does not respect the constrain of this items.
2. check if all the volume and weight (multiplied by an increasing factor) of the leftovers items can be fit in the vehicles that respect the constrain. If some vehicle are present mean that the solution can be ended with this last truck (among that the one with the lesser cost is choosen), so the ACO parameters (number of iterations and ants) are boosted of the 50% in order to have the solution to end with this vehicle.
3. if the truck choosen is not the last, based on the previous solution weight and area ratio, the most efficient vehicle is choosen in terms of biggest area or weight ratio. 